 
Sanghamitra                         Solutions - Winners                        July 2011 Issue 
Solutions & Winners 
 
Kids’ ‘X’ Word Solution 
 
 
 
 
Kids Challenge! 
Did you find the word? 
It is “DIMENSION”. 
There was a mistake in one of the 
clues. Instead of 3rd, 4th and 5th – the 
clues were given as 2nd, 3rd and 4th.  
Smart kids : 
1. Sravya Ainapurapu, St. Louis. 
2. Sruthi Ainapurapu, St. Louis. 
 
Kids’ ‘X’word Winners: 
1. D. Aditya, Lucknow. 
 
 
Salutation to your solution! - Answers 
1. Water @ 200F. 
Water @ 200F is below freezing temperature and becomes Ice. Rest of the 
substances are in liquid state only. 
 
2. Base – 2 x folded length : Base. 
    
 
 
Let us assume the base and height of the 
right angled triangle shape are „a‟ and „b‟ 
respectively.  
The base of the folded triangle be „c‟.  
The area of actual triangle = ½ ab.  
Area of folded triangle = ½ bc 
Area of blue colored part = Total area – 2 x 
area of folded portion. 
Which is ½ ab – 2 x ½ bc = ½ b(a – 2c). 
So the ratio of blue colored area to the 
actual shape = ½ b(a – 2c) : ½ ab 
                       = a – 2c : a 
The ratio is base – 2 x folded length : Base. 
3. The dancer is standing 2 meters from the dresser mirror. The other mirror used 
to check the flowers in her hair. So the image of the flowers appear 3 meters from 
the dresser mirror. So the image is formed 3 meters behind the dresser mirror. 
4. There are 16 characters to use. There are 3 non-repeating character combinations 
to form the key. First position can be filled in 16 different ways. Second position 
can be filled in 15 ways (As one character is been used already). Third position 
can be filled in 14 ways. So the robber has a chance of guessing the right 
combination in 1 in (16 x 15 x 14) = 1 in 3360. 
b 
a

 
Sanghamitra                          Solutions - Winners                       July 2011 Issue 
 
 
Salutation to your solution! - Winners: 
1. T. Anoop, East Godavari, India.          2. Vaasanti Maghapu, California. 
 
Question Gallery! - We ourselves disclosing answers!! 
1. The Reindeer lake (not raindeer, we apologize for the mistake) is a glacier lake 
located in western Canada.  
2. Bill Clinton wrote the book „Between hope and history‟. 
3. When an object is placed in between two mirrors placed parallel facing each other, 
infinite number of images are formed.  
  4. Thyroid gland controls how quickly the body uses energy, makes proteins and 
controls how sensitive the body should be to other hormones. Over active thyroid 
gland (hyperthyroidism) and an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) causes 
lots of problems. This gland is located on the front part of the neck below the thyroid 
cartilage. This gland produces harmones, which regulates body metabolism. 
 5. The capital of Mexico is Mexico city. 
 6. The human body on an average consists of 5 liters of blood. 
 7. One mile is equal to 5280ft. One feet is equal to 12 inches. So one mile is equal to 
63360 inches. 
 8. An element having 17 electrons is Chlorine with symbol Cl. 
 9. Charaka was one of the principal contributors to the ancient art and science of 
Ayurveda, a system of medicine and life style developed in ancient India. 
10. Epiglottis is flap of cartilage located in the throat behind the tongue and in front of 
the larynx. The Epiglottis is usually upright at rest allowing air to pass into larynx 
and lungs. When a person swallows, the Epiglottis folds backward to cover the 
entrance of the larynx – so food and liquid do not enter the windpipe and lungs. 
After swallowing the Epiglottis returns to its original upright position. 
 
Question Gallery! – Winners : 1. Vaasanti Maghapu, California.                             * 
 
Amaze your friend using a small trick! 
Step 1: Ask him to select a three digit number. 
Step 2: Tell him to multiply by 13. 
Step 3: Ask him to multiply the product by 7. 
Step 4: Now ask him to tell the final product. 
Now you can tell him the chosen number quickly. How? See the solution below. 
 
 
 
